---
title: May 2025
permalink: /notes/2025/05
---

[tinalexander.github.io](https://tinalexander.github.io/) / [notes](https://tinalexander.github.io/notes/) / [2025](https://tinalexander.github.io/notes/2025/) / **05** /

**Learn more [about this site](https://tinalexander.github.io/notes/) and [how to get in touch](https://github.com/tinalexander#about-me).** 

<br>

# May 1, 2025

## HHS spokesperson reply to question about $500 million to NIH's Dr. Matthew Memoli

- **Source:** emailed statement
- **Attribution:** Department of Health and Human Services spokesperson Vianca Rodriguez Feliciano
- **Date:** received May 1, 2025

> Generation Gold Standard marks a critical step in restoring strategic focus and radical transparency to America’s pandemic preparedness. Developed entirely by government scientists—free from industry influence—the BPL vaccine platform could provide broad, long-lasting protection against all influenza viral pathogens, including influenza and coronaviruses, with the added potential to block transmission and stop outbreaks at the source.
> 
> This initiative realigns BARDA with its core mission: preparing for all flu viral pathogens, not just COVID-19. It delivers a cost-effective, accountable alternative to the Biden administration’s wasteful Project NextGen, which spent $1.63 billion on COVID-19 vaccines and $1.19 billion on therapeutics, neglecting broader pandemic preparedness.

## HHS spokesperson's reply to question about updated COVID vaccines for the winter

- **Source:** emailed statement
- **Attribution:** Department of Health and Human Services spokesperson
- **Date:** received May 1, 2025

> Secretary Kennedy’s HHS has pledged radical transparency to the American public. This means being honest and straightforward about what we know — and what we don’t know — about medical products, including vaccines. The CDC’s former practice of suppressing information about vaccine injuries has badly eroded trust in our public health agencies.
>  
> Under Secretary Kennedy’s leadership, all new vaccines will undergo safety testing in placebo-controlled trials prior to licensure — a radical departure from past practices. Except for the COVID vaccine, none of the vaccines on the CDC’s childhood recommended schedule was tested against an inert placebo, meaning we know very little about the actual risk profiles of these products.
>  
> The CDC’s own research has shown that the post-licensure surveillance system, VAERS, captures fewer than 1% of vaccine injuries. It’s a system that was designed to fail. The Vaccine Safety Datalink (VSD) — intended as a backup to VAERS — is virtually unusable for serious research. Both systems have become templates of regulatory malpractice.
>  
> HHS is now building surveillance systems that will accurately measure vaccine risks as well as benefits — because real science demands both transparency and accountability.

