---
title: September
layout: default
parent: 2023
has_children: false
has_toc: false
nav_order: 9
permalink: /2023/09
---

<br>

{: .important }
Learn more [about these notes](https://tinalexander.github.io/notes/) and [how to get in touch](https://github.com/tinalexander#about-me). 

<br>

# September 12, 2023

## CDC, ACIP members, and companies on updated COVID vaccines

- **Source:** [webcast](https://video.ibm.com/channel/VWBXKBR8af4) of Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices meeting
- **Date:** broadcasted September 12, 2023

Demetre Daskalakis, CDC [10:26:24]

I'll echo that we're also aware that there's a lot of interest in having non mRNA vaccine options available. And we also look forward to the potential authorization of the updated vaccine.

It's important to note that the voting language that is going to be presented later today is inclusive of FDA licensed or authorized updated monovalent XBB containing COVID 19 vaccines, including those that may be licensed or authorized in coming months.

So this would allow such vaccines to be incorporated into programs immediately following FDA regulatory action. And that won't require that ACIP be reconvened. So I hope that this will facilitate the availability of the Novavax vaccine once FDA has reviewed and potentially authorized.

...

Natalie Thornburg, CDC [10:44:20]

It's kind of evolving in two different, I don't want to say clades, but two different versions of BA.2.86 right now.

There are two U.S. sequences that are highlighted with yellow arrows. So one that was detected in Michigan and another sequence that was detected in Ohio.

Next slide please.

So BA.2.86 has more than 30 amino acid substitutions in spike in comparison to XBB.1.5. And as far as the sequencing goes, that's a similar change in amino acid of spike during that Delta to Omicron shift.

There's variations between sequences due to missing data and sequencing artifacts, but then there also may be some variations in it, in some of the viruses themselves.

...

Natalie Thornburg, CDC [10:45:21]

Again, it was first detected in specimens collected in late July 2023. And as of last week, there were seven clinical specimens, seven sequences, in seven U.S. states, and then there was one additional state detection in wastewater.

We may have a couple more this week and in coming weeks, but the take home message is we have a very small number of viruses detected in the United States thus far. And as of last week, it had been detected in 10 different countries.

We're still dealing with a fairly small number of sequences.

...

Natalie Thornburg, CDC [10:51:03]

So as a reminder, um, more than 90% of circulating viruses are XBB lineage viruses with an additional, one to two substitutions in RBD, I'm sorry, this slide is not correct, but okay.

More than 90% of circulating viruses are XBB lineage viruses with one to two additional substitutions.
BA.2.86 is a newly detected lineage with 30 amino acid substitutions in spike.

Thus far the number of viruses detected is still low. Sequence numbers are too low to calculate proportion though, so we don't know if BA.2.86 will be of any significant circulation.

Preliminary pseudovirus neutralization data generated by multiple labs do not indicate a large reduction in neutralization activity.

...

Natalie Thornburg, CDC [10:52:11]

CDC has generated two authentic isolates of BA.2.86. One confirmed and one putative.

We are in the process of distributing BA.2.86 viruses to multiple labs to do transmission studies, more neutralization studies, against lots of different kinds sera.

And then we have another putative isolate, which is from a slightly different version of BA.2.86.
We're also locally working on titrations before neutralization studies.

...

Fiona Havers, CDC [11:05:46]

In summary, next slide, hospitalization rates have increased in all age groups since mid July.
Hospitalization rates remain highest in older adults and in young infants, less than six months of age.

Most children under five hospitalized COVID 19 illness have no underlying medical conditions. A higher proportion of hospitalized children in adolescents in older age groups for those 5 to 17 years have underlying medical conditions.

And not surprisingly, most hospitalized adults have multiple underlying medical conditions.

COVID 19 continues to cause severe illness, with a substantial proportion of patients being admitted to the ICU in all age groups and clinical outcomes. While it varies a little bit by age group, are generally comparable to influenza associated hospitalizations, and most children and adults hospitalized for COVID 19, since January 2023 had not received a bivalent booster prior to hospitalization.

...

Fiona Havers, CDC [11:37:20]

We are collecting data at the time. Right now, we don't have any data specifically on those infants who are hospitalized, but that is something that we're looking into in, in data collection, on maternal vaccination of hospitalized infants is ongoing at the moment, but I apologize, I don't have that available today.

...

Fiona Havers, CDC [11:45:37]

We do have data on that. We collect symptoms on all of our— when we do the medical chart review, I would say that the vast majority of children under five presented with respiratory symptoms who are admitted with a positive SARS-CoV-2 test.

And I will say that the data that— I think that most children are having respiratory symptoms, they are, some of them are being admitted with fever and other things. I don't have a breakdown of symptoms on the slides here, but I'm happy to provide that after we do collect those data.

I would say, generally speaking, respiratory symptoms, such as cough, fever, shortness of breath, and then also symptoms like bronchiolitis in younger children are fairly common, but I don't have a breakdown on these slides here, but I think that most of the children that we're talking about here today, including among young infants, do have respiratory symptoms.

...

Filip Dubovsky, Novavax [01:14:31]

So the Novavax vaccine filing is under active review by the FDA. So this slide includes some forward looking statements, pending final authorization.

We understand our vaccine will be indicated for individuals 12 years of age and older, consistent with the age indication of last year's vaccine. The vaccine will be distributed in two vials per carton, with five doses per vial, so each carton contains 10 doses, and the dose volume is 0.5 mls per dose. The same dose is used in all authorized age groups.

Our product is ready to use requiring no reconstitution and can be administered with standard needles and syringes routinely stocked in vaccine clinics. And the vaccine is shipped and stored as standard refrigerator temperature, and currently has a nine month shelf life, and is to be used within 12 hours of initial puncture of the vial.

In discussion with the FDA, we understand the single dose will be indicated for people who have been previously vaccinated, irrespective of which vaccine they received, and a two dose series 21 days apart, is to be used for those who have not been previously vaccinated.

...

Kayvon Modjarrad, Pfizer [01:34:18]

We have not had any use as of yet, but we will have a vaccine available as early as tomorrow in the U.S. in some locations.

...

Frances Priddy, Moderna [01:40:22]

So the list price for our vaccine is 129 per dose. Thank you.

...

(unclear), Pfizer [01:40:39]

The list price for Pfizer vaccine is 120 dollars per dose.

...

John Trizzino, Novavax [01:41:03]

The list and/or WAC price that we refer to, ours is 130 dollars per dose, which in industry conditions is subject to contract pricing and discounts. Also of note is that our contracted price with CDC is 72.50 per dose.

...

Matthew Daley, ACIP [01:43:49]

I have heard from small private practices about a minimum order amount, something like 200 doses. And I just think that creates barriers. 

So I would ask all the manufacturers to consider reducing what the minimum amount that practices need to order, just because that's a significant financial outlay, maybe 20,000 dollars, and it's for a practice who might need to buy multiple doses for multiple different age ranges, for example, a small family medicine practice. And so then that just presents a barrier.

...

Megan Wallace, CDC [01:56:31]

During our discussions, the work group asked to investigate if young people with no underlying conditions, were still having severe illness from COVID 19. We know that that underlying conditions put you at risk, for higher risk, sorry— put you at higher risk for severe COVID 19 outcomes. And that the percent of the population that has underlying conditions differs dramatically by age.

To evaluate the burden among those without underlying conditions, we looked at the percent hospitalized for COVID 19 that have no underlying conditions by age group, which is the first column, and of those hospitalized with no underlying conditions, what percent were admitted to the ICU, which is the middle column, the final percent of those admitted to the ICU— and finally, what percent of those admitted to the ICU had no underlying conditions, which is the far right column in each of these categories.

We see that those without underlying conditions are progressing to severe illness, though we should note that these percentages should be interpreted with the understanding that children have a lower probability of having underlying conditions overall.

I also want to mention that these findings of people ages six months to 49 years with no underlying conditions progressing to severe outcomes due to COVID 19 was confirmed in other CDC platforms.

...

Megan Wallace, CDC [02:01:13]

In summary, COVID 19 burden is currently lower than a previous points in the pandemic. However, the absolute number of hospitalizations and deaths is still high.


Although hospitalization rates are currently low, we have seen rates increase in recent weeks and anticipate further increases as we enter respiratory virus season.

Infants and older adults have the highest COVID 19 associated hospitalization rates, children and adults with no underlying medical conditions still experience severe illness due to COVID 19.

We saw in Dr. Saydah's presentation earlier that post COVID conditions are common following SARS-CoV-2 infection, decrease with time since infection, and have decreased since the start of the pandemic.
People of racial and ethnic minority groups continue to be disproportionately impacted by COVID 19. High proportions of underlying conditions may put certain groups at increased risk for severe outcomes due to COVID 19. Next.

When asked is COVID 19 disease among persons six months and older of public health importance, the majority workgroup opinion was yes, next.

...

Megan Wallace, CDC [02:20:30]

COVID 19 vaccine benefits are anticipated in all age groups, but the benefits of COVID 19 vaccines vary by age and incidence of COVID 19 hospitalizations.

The benefits outweigh the risks in groups for which which risk of myocarditis is highest.

Modeling projects more hospitalizations and deaths are averted when updated doses are universally recommended compared to no recommendation or recommendation only for person 65 years and older.

...

Megan Wallace, CDC [02:24:12]

This slide shows intent to get a new updated COVID 19 vaccine as of August.
42% of respondents reported that they definitely will or probably will get the COVID 19 vaccine this fall. Next.

Based on data from the bivalent vaccine uptake and intent, we see that intent is highly related to receipt of previous COVID 19 vaccine doses. Those that had a past COVID 19 vaccination were more likely to have received a bivalent vaccine dose while the majority of the unvaccinated reported that they probably or definitely will not get a bivalent vaccine dose. Next.

And when we look at the top concerns or issues regarding the bivalent vaccine, among those that reported that they probably or definitely will not get the vaccine regardless of past vaccination status, the most commonly reported concern was unknown serious side effects.

Next, this slide shows reported confidence in vaccine safety for COVID 19 vaccine, influenza vaccine, and other routine vaccines. Confidence in vaccine safety is higher for influenza and other routine adult vaccines than for the COVID 19 vaccine, with only about half of respondents reporting that the COVID 19 vaccine is completely or very safe. Next.

...

Megan Wallace, CDC [02:27:36]

This slide shows fall vaccination intent by age group.

We can see that the vaccine intent increases by age, with those ages 65 years and older being the most likely to report intent to vaccinate. This trend is also seen with other vaccines, such as flu.

Next.

And this intent to get a fall COVID 19 vaccine mirrors the uptake we saw with the bivalent doses, with older adults, having a much higher coverage than younger adults and children.

Next.

Intent to get a new updated COVID 19 vaccine varies some, but not substantially, by race and ethnicity.

...

Megan Wallace, CDC [02:32:17]

There are still barriers to implementation. There are now three seasonal vaccines and preventative products, including COVID 19 vaccine, influenza vaccine, and RSV vaccine and preventative products, which means there are more vaccines to manage, limited storage space for more vaccines, and more opportunity for vaccine administration errors.

Providers will need to adapt to new cap and label colors, and all three manufacturers now have products with blue caps, introducing opportunity for error. Next.

...

Megan Wallace, CDC [02:43:43]

Finally, we have an optional— we had an optional second bivalent dose for those ages 65 years and older. We do not have an additional dose recommendation for the 2023-2024 vaccine at this time.
We will monitor the epidemiology and vaccine effectiveness to determine if additional doses are needed.

...

Megan Wallace, CDC [02:38:47]

The work group considered non universal policy options with considerable discussion around the magnitude of benefits in the young, healthy population. As part of these deliberations, the work group requested additional data on severe illness due to COVID 19 in those with, and without underlying conditions, there was no group that clearly had no risk of severe illness.

Additionally, the vast majority of the U.S. population had an underlying condition that would qualify under a risk based recommendation, prevalence of overweight and obesity alone account, or is over 70% in adults.

A risk based recommendation would not allow access to COVID 19 vaccines for all that wanted them. Shared clinical decision making could create barriers to vaccination and may not effectively target those at highest risk.

COVID 19 epidemiology remains uncertain and non universal recommendations would need to be quickly revisited if there was an increase in burden. There is currently still substantial COVID 19 disease burden and simple stable recommendations may increase vaccine coverage over time.

The work group emphasized that COVID 19 recommendations should be reviewed on an ongoing basis as more is learned about COVID 19 seasonality and disease burden in the future.

...

Megan Wallace, CDC [02:40:08]

Burden of severe illness due to COVID 19 is lowest among children ages five to 17 years, despite lower burden relative to other age groups, hundreds of deaths due to COVID 19 occurred in this age group in 2021 and 2022.

Half of pediatric COVID 19 deaths were in individuals with no underlying conditions. The number of COVID 19 associated hospitalizations and deaths in this age group are comparable to the burden seen in other vaccine preventable diseases for which there are universal recommendations. There are potential additional benefits of vaccination, such as prevention of post COVID conditions. And the potential for reduced school. absenteeism.

Risk of myocarditis appears lower than the risk observed following the primary series doses, which may be due to the increased interval between doses. However, certainty is limited by relatively lower sample size of booster recipients in VSD.

The future COVID 19 epidemiology remains uncertain and the low disease burden we are currently seeing may not last.

After a robust discussion, the work group was supported of a universal recommendation at this time.

...

Melinda Wharton, CDC [03:15:46]

So the vote language as proposed, the intent of it is to cover for the upcoming season, the XBB containing monovalent vaccines as they are authorized, either under emergency use authorization or approved by BLA.

There is, as has been discussed today, one product, which according to the manufacturer remains under review, and we anticipate will likely be authorized soon.

The available information has been presented today. As far as I know, no additional information will be available, that would be able to be presented at an upcoming meeting, following regulatory action.

So, we certainly could reconvene the meeting, we always can reconvene ACIP if it feels necessary, but given the fact that no additional information is expected to be available, it feels like this is the kind of vote that we can move to a more normal cadence of things such as we do for recommendations like for influenza vaccine, where we don't necessarily need to reconvene the committee when additional products are licensed under existing recommendations.

...

Georgina Peacock, CDC [02:50:25]

The federal contracts that have been modified in order to hasten delivery of the 2023-24 COVID 19 vaccines within our public health infrastructure for both children and adults will allow us to have the first doses available within 48 hours of the expected recommendation.

There will also be the retail pharmacies that have been contracted to provide doses for uninsured Americans through the Bridge Access Program, will also have availability within about that same time period, and we are expecting the commercial insurance will—commercial product will be expected around that same timeframe as well.

...

Georgina Peacock, CDC [02:51:35]

So typically the Affordable Care Act requires that insurers cover most ACIP recommended vaccines without cost sharing, by the next coverage year. COVID 19 vaccines are recommend— have been recommended on schedule since February 2023.

However, in addition to this, for COVID 19 vaccines, specifically in the CARES Act, there was statement that expedites coverage of COVID 19 vaccines, so that they are available immediately upon authorization under EUA or approved under a BLA. And you can see the more detailed information right here.

...

Georgina Peacock, CDC [02:52:19]

So people with Medicare and Medicaid will also have access to COVID 19 vaccines at no cost.

COVID 19 vaccines are covered under Medicare Part B without cost sharing, and the Inflation Reduction Act that was passed in August of 2022 eliminates cost sharing for all ACIP recommended vaccines under Medicaid and Medicare Part D equivalent plans and guarantees that nearly 50 million Medicare beneficiaries and more than 80 million Medicaid beneficiaries will have access to all vaccines recommended by ACIP without cost sharing.

...

Evelyn Twentyman, CDC [02:57:10]

The retail pharmacies in the Bridge Access Program are using three different approaches to maximize access to COVID 19 vaccines.

CVS plans to administer doses within both their storefronts and minute clinics. Walgreen's plans to administer doses in both their storefronts and at offsite events, targeting areas of low access and low uptake.

eTrueNorth is a pharmacy aggregator that subcontracts with smaller pharmacies intended to reach lower access areas without other coverage within the Bridge Access Program, their discussions with additional potentially participating pharmacies are ongoing.

...

Megan Wallace, CDC [03:04:23]

So that you have the option to wait for three months, but it is not a requirement. So I think, as soon as they're feeling better, they can get the vaccine if they want it, but they can also choose to wait.

...

Megan Wallace, CDC [03:21:25]

We're recommending a two month interval, so two months from your past dose, you can get this vaccine.

...

Evelyn Twentyman, CDC [03:19:17]

There is indeed, uh, later this week, vaccines.gov will be updated to include a filter for Bridge Access Program site. In other words, all sites participating in the Bridge Access Program through which no cost COVID 19 vaccines can be found.

...

Pablo Sanchez, ACIP [03:26:54]

I'm not for a universal recommendation at this time.

I certainly think that those aged, the elderly, adults whether they're 65 or greater than 55, should, I would recommend that, as well as certain risk groups, certainly the immunocompromised, in pregnancy, but I think that we need to be— we need to be aware and let the public know that the data on children is not there. And for that, I think that discussion needs to be had. So I think in non-high risk groups, I would favor a shared decision making. And, and again, in even the concern for the— for the 12 or 15 to 39 year old, the myocarditis risk, I recognize that— that it hasn't been seen with the bivalent dosing, but the uptake has been low for that.

Well, so I think we need to be— we really need to level with our patients and say, what is known and unknown, rather than make a complete recommendation, especially for some groups that there are limited data.

...

Matthew Daley, ACIP [03:29:15]

There was some concern that the work group entered its to deliberations this summer assuming that a universal vaccination strategy was the obvious policy choice, but I just want to reiterate that that was very much not the case. The work group reviewed this as an opportunity to reevaluate the vaccination program. And we essentially started with a blank slate.

And so related, we, the work group, asked our CDC colleagues to update and present data on disease burden by age group for those with and without chronic medical conditions. And that was the most persuasive line of argument for me, knowing that there were deaths, including in children, including in those without chronic conditions, and my perception is that that those deaths are vaccine preventable.

And when we asked for this burden data, the focus was on serious disease, including hospitalization, ICU, admission, and death, and Dr. Wallace summarized all this for us and, and suffice it to say that the disease burden does very greatly by age, but there is serious illness, death across all age groups, including among those without underlying medical conditions.

So there may be a day where we revisit a risk based strategy. We always should consider this, but in order for that to be a desirable approach, I think we need to feel confident that disease burden in those not at risk, we need to be quite low and that's low in absolute terms of cases of serious illness and death, but also low in relative terms relative to the burden of disease, for other diseases against which we have a universal vaccine recommendation.

...

Beth Bell, ACIP [03:31:49]

I think today we've heard a wealth of evidence about the risks, the benefits, extremely comprehensive dealing with the issue, and I, to Dr. Daley's point, I think that it indicates there's all kinds of robust information that show robust benefits of vaccination on severe illness on death, probably on long COVID.

And, so with a reasonable safety profile, granted not exactly with this vaccine, but with, a very similar vaccine. So I think that it's clear that vaccination is going to prevent serious illness and death across all age groups. It is a vaccine preventable disease. And so I, for that reason, favor universal recommendation.

Now having said that, I, because I think it's important for people to have access to the vaccine, if they want it.


Having said that, I also want to say that there's not equal risk across all ages and populations. And it's clear that there are certain people, like old people like me, people with underlying medical conditions, that are much higher risk of dying. And so I think that the messaging needs to sort of clarify that and make clear that there is this differential risk, and that a lot of people with underlying medical conditions and who are older are dying, and they really need to get a booster.

...

Barbara Mahon, CDC [03:38:07]

I just wanted to say that, very mindful of the groups that are at substantially higher risk and are planning targeted communications to try to have vigorous and compelling outreach to those groups, that can be done regardless of whether a recommendation is targeted or not.

So under a universal recommendation, we will still have targeted communications for older adults, immunocompromised persons, and others at higher risk.

...

Pablo Sanchez, ACIP [03:55:16]

I just want to be clear that I am not against this vaccine. The data do look great. The limited data that are available does look great, even though it may not be the most, you know, the circulating variants currently, but it has neutralizing activity against the other variants and certainly the ones that are circulating now or expected to be circulating.

I am very much pro vaccination, and certainly high risk groups.

I do— I just want to comment that we have extremely limited data on children and infants and other individuals, and so I think that needs to be made available then to the parents. And I also think that in certain circumstances, we do have to be concerned about potential side effects, especially in the, you know, in young adults and young adult males.

And so I think all of that needs to be weighed. And so that's why I hesitate to make it just a universal recommendation, even though I do support vaccination with the COVID vaccine.

# September 11, 2023

## FDA spokesperson on Novavax's updated COVID vaccine

- **Source**: email from Cherie Duvall-Jones of the Food and Drug Administration
- **Date:** received September 11, 2023

> Novavax has announced it anticipates the XBB.1.5 composition of its vaccine to be available sometime this fall. Questions about the application’s current status may be directed to the company. As the FDA has done throughout the pandemic, we will make information available as appropriate.

## CMS spokesperson on coverage for updated COVID vaccines

- **Source:** email from a Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services spokesperson
- **Date:** received September 5, 2023

> The following is provided on background, attributed to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services or a CMS spokesperson:
> 
> An FAQ the Departments of HHS, Labor, and Treasury released on October 4, 2021, states in relevant part as follows:
> 
> “In a December 12, 2020 meeting, ACIP recommended: “For purposes of ACIP’s role under the Affordable Care Act, ACIP recommends use of COVID-19 vaccines within the scope of the Emergency Use Authorization or Biologics License Application for the particular vaccine.” On the same day, the Director of the CDC adopted this ACIP recommendation. Although ACIP has made additional recommendations regarding COVID-19 vaccines since December 12, 2020, none of those recommendations affect plan and issuer coverage obligations regarding COVID-19 vaccines under the preventive services regulations, and therefore the December 12, 2020 recommendation remains in effect for this purpose. The requirement under section 3203 of the CARES Act for plans and issuers to cover COVID-19 vaccines consistent with this ACIP recommendation became effective 15 business days after the December 12, 2020 adoption by the CDC. Therefore, effective January 5, 2021, plans and issuers must cover, without cost sharing, any COVID-19 vaccine authorized under an EUA or approved under a BLA by the FDA immediately upon the vaccine becoming authorized or approved. This coverage must be provided consistent with the scope of the EUA or BLA for the particular vaccine, including any EUA or BLA amendment, such as to allow for the administration of an additional dose to certain individuals, administration of booster doses, or the expansion of the age demographic for whom the vaccine is authorized or approved.”
> 
> The full FAQ can be found here: [FAQs about Affordable Care Act Implementation Part 50, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act Implementation (dol.gov)](https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/ebsa/about-ebsa/our-activities/resource-center/faqs/aca-part-50.pdf)
